you all already know though I spend a
lot of time thinking about my long-term
options in terms of career and education
and I have to have a very different
paths opening up in front of me
sometimes I think I should just go back
to Canada and enroll in a course in a
beacon there is one College in Canada
that I know of that doesn't just have a
general you know certificate program you
know practical college certificate
program in baking running a bakery but
they also have a specialized course
within it on vegan baking thing I should
do that take on that direction you know
possibly work in bakeries for Fears
possibly run my own vegan bakery or some
kind of food service linked to veganism
as a result I mean at the opposite
extreme of course I could get a PhD in
almost any formal academic discipline
linked to politics sociology history
Asian Studies wouldn't quite a number of
different fields that have a background
in and you know I've been thinking too
but whether or not I should get an MPA
MPA is masters of Public Administration
and that might be useful for running a
vegan nonprofit for organizing a
foundation or institution for the
movement but also it could be useful for
running some kind of educational
business linked to teaching languages at
this point studying and teaching
languages is a lifelong burden for me
could I run a school in Canada as a
nonprofit that taught Chinese to white
people and black people taught Chinese
to non Chinese people basically taught
Chinese as a language to adult students
I'm presuming or you know university
aged students or what have you
I'm not assuming a children's school but
uh you know fee-for-service based
private sector educational institution
similar to many a visited in person and
similar to the one that I was myself a
student at when I was in command and
then would it be possible long
for me to match that career path and
running that kind of small foundation
small business small institution to
match that with my own interest in
endangered languages including Korean a
Ghibli so in Canada what I imagine is
you have a foundation like that maybe
your main thing is teaching Chinese
maybe you also take on some teachers to
teach French Spanish German whatever the
market is looking for whatever this
shortage of teachers and educational
options opportunities and maybe you can
take on other languages but then maybe
you can apply for government grants and
funding and do fundraising and on a
charitable basis also offer education
and outreach for Cree a Jib way Mohawk
or other languages that are native to
Canada
those of you have been following this
channel for a long time would know I
really do have an interest in that
now to be clear I do not imagine myself
ever being a Chinese language teacher
but I think I could be a manager who is
managing a foundation like that and
hiring and selecting the teachers what
have you so I mean I really think about
a tremendously diverse range of jobs
some of them very directly linked to
veganism as a movement like baking I
wouldn't be interested in becoming a
baker at all if I wasn't vegan or if it
didn't have the potential to be a
positive part of you know my future in
the movement and etc etc all the way
over to totally academic Dennis PhD work
or something like the Masters of Public
Administration between his master's
Republican administration you should
learn how to run a non-profit foundation
or agency how to deal with all the
government paperwork how to do how to do
every every element of running that kind
of Foundation agency if it's a good
program and if it's a bad program who
knows what you're gonna get and you know
there were other options that I've even
talked to openly on patreon that are
really outside of the box this may
surprise some of you guys but I did have
enough of background of the Arts I feel
confident that I could
good enough living if I went back to
arts college and got a degree have
simply got a college degree in painting
there's a small private well all the
school all the private schools in Canada
actually receive government handouts so
I don't know if it's called a private or
public for anyway but there's a small
arts college in in Victoria called
Vancouver Island School the arts and I
actually do feel confident that I could
just take some courses there in painting
and sit down and work seriously on you
know my skills of my skills as an
illustrator and that I could pretty
quickly be turning over canvases on the
art market and making a reasonable
amount of money doing so now you know I
have that expectation rightly or wrongly
partly because of the many painters I
have known face to face in my own life
and probably because the history and
experience of read of affairs of
painters uh I have no claim to great
manual skill in painting things but some
of the painters have known were
successful what's also true of and you
know so often you see painters who do
have that skill but don't really have
something to say don't really if
something interesting or brilliant or
provocative to offer on the canvas so
you know this question of the medium
versus the message and what is it that
makes your already interesting and also
look I said this to my girlfriend the
other day a lot of people involved in
the arts part of the problem is that
they perceive the role of the artist in
the same way that schoolchildren
perceive the role of the fireman or the
role the policeman they often have an
idea of what it means to be an artist
that they invented in their own minds
eye when they were children they never
challenged that and I'm very much at the
opposite extreme because my experience
is in museums and galleries and the art
market and just reading the Art
Newspaper and looking critically and
constructively at how the art market
works and how artists really survive so
even though that may seem shocking to
some of you guys like what I'm going to
finish this degree in Asian Studies and
then turn around and become a creative
artist become a painter
to me that is actually much more
reliable route to earning money than say
opening a restaurant there are a lot of
question marks there but open restaurant
including is having the capital the
startup money do that or starting the
foundation in education there are a lot
of hurdles talking about finishing two
different university degrees and then
going to a bank with a little bit of
money I've got and trying to get a bank
loan to start that kind of institution
that's actually a relatively long and
uncertain road and in fact getting some
credentials taking some courses and
really working hard
which I'm capable of doing just wake up
early and go to bed late at night
working on your own skills as a painter
and taking courses at a college building
that up and you know having the humility
and the pragmatic attitude to recognize
that you are producing canvasses
especially early in your career that are
gonna hang in hotels and motels and
office buildings and boardrooms you know
what I mean and people's private
apartments you know understanding you
know the function of the fine arts not
so different from the decorative arts
you know having that that kind of
attitude I'm actually much more
confident that within a couple of years
I could be paying my own rent through
the fine arts than I am that I could be
doing it through the tortuous route of
taking my political science background
putting it into masters of Public
Administration than putting public
administration to a productive career in
basically nonprofit education and
language education and I don't know if I
go into baking I think my career
prospects as a vegan Baker or exactly as
good as the money I've got my own pocket
because I don't think anyone else is
gonna give me startup capital to startup
or operate that kind of business so that
is what I've been thinking about lately
and I'm making this video as I warned
partly so I can share it with my own mom
what a mom